In this chapter we are going to talk about another Amercian learning algorithm the so-called Navy base
classifier.
It is a very efficient supervised learning algorithm.
So again this algorithm needs a data set with the features and labels accordingly.
It scales avail.
Even in hied I imagines and it is able to compete with support vector machines or even random for us
classifiers as far as machine learning is concerned.
Support vector machines and random forest classifiers are the best we can do.
OK.
With the advent of supercomputers and deep now Real Networks support vector machines and random forest
classifiers are not as popular as they have been.
But anyways these approaches are working quite fine navy base classifier support vector machines and
random for us classifier Navy base classifier is able to make good predictions even when the training
data set is relatively small.
This is a huge advantage for NE's based classifier that we don't need a huge dataset in order to train
the algorithm.
You may pose a question that OK why is it named because it has a naive assumption that every pair of
features are independent.
So let's talk a bit about it.
OK so there's a strong independence assumptions as far as Navy base classify Wisconsin between the given
features.
So for example a fruit can be considered to be an apple.
If the color is red.
If it is rounded and the diameter is about 8 centimeters.
Now you base classifier considers each of these features so the color the roundness and the diameter.
So these features contribute independently to the probability that this food is an apple.
So it does not care about the correlation between these features.
And usually this is not the case.
So this is the main disadvantage for naive base classifier that does independence assumption is usually
not true.
OK so for example if we consider credit scoring data that we have been talking about the correlation
matrix and if we print out the correlation we can make sure that there are lots of lots of negatively
correlated features and positively correlated features.
OK the diagonal values are all the warnings because every feature is correlated with itself so we don't
have to bother about the diagonal values.
But as you can see there are lots of lots of positively correlated features such as income and loan
and they are negatively correlated features such as income and age.
So that's why this independence assumption is usually not true.
The features are not independent of each other.
There is some positive or negative correlation between them.
OK so let's talk about the abstract mathematical approach.
Knave based classifier who relies heavily on a conditional probabilities so that P C K given x1 x2 up
to x.
And this equation means the probability that a new item with these features.
So x1 x2 X and features has d output C K.
So what about these features.
The X-1 feature can be income X-2 feature is the age for example x 3 feature is the loan.
So the X varietals are the features in the data set.
The C is the possible outcome of K classes.
When dealing with credit scoring K is equal to 2 because there are two output classes 0 or 1.
So default and when the client is able to pay back the loan the C K is the possible loss for a given
set of features.
So for example k is zero when the income is this value the ages.
This enables you and a loan is this value.
So X-amount x 2 x 3.
Are the features and the C key values are the given old put clauses 0 or 1.
In this case.
OK and we can use Bayes Theorem so we can decompose the conditional probability with the half of this
formula.
So the P C K.
Given the features is equal to the probability of the given output.
As you can see times the probability of the features given the output class divide by the probability
of the feature is because this probability of the features are the same for all C values.
Basically we don't have to deal with because in the end we are going to use an optimization algorithm
because we would like to take the action with the highest probability.
OK so we are able to transform this equation into this equation because of the basic theorem and because
Naved based classifier had an assumption that all the features are independent of each other.
We can say that the probability of x1 x2 up to X and given a c k is equal to the probability of X Y
on a given c k times the probability of x2 Gidon c k up to the probability of X and given C K.
So basically the original equation is proportional to the probability of the given output Clauss times.
We just have to apply all these probabilities and finally nave based classifier is going to choose the
S.K. class with the highest probability.
So as you can see the final C class is equal to or the max.
So we are going to find the maximum as far as the credit risk data set is concerned we have 0 and 1.
So S.K. can be 0 or 1.
These are the probabilities of the given outputs and we just have to calculate disvalue the probability
of a given feature.
Given the output class.
OK so that's all about the abstract mathematical approach behind Navy base classifier.
Let's talk a bit about the advantages and disadvantages.
The advantages are that it is relatively simple modal to understand.
It can be trained on small data sets as well.
It is a faster approach and it is not sensitive to irrelevant features.
The disadvantage is that it assumes every feature is independent of each other and of course it is not
always true.
OK so as far as regression problems are concerned such as linear regression and logistic regression.
The aim of the optimization algorithm is to find the optimal be the paramita as either the gradient
descent or the maximum likelihood estimator.
As far as naive base classifier is concerned fitting the model means finding the probabilities and finding
the maximum out of the probabilities.
As far as the output clauses are concerned.
OK.
And the last question.
Is that why is it so powerful for tax classification.
Because now the base classifier is usually used for tax classification or sentiment analyzes and because
the two assumptions of naive basic classifier such that the probability of occurrence of any Verd given
the Clauss label is independent of the probability of occurrence of any other Verd given that label
and the second assumption is that the probability of occurrence of a Verd in a document is independent
of the location of that word within the document.
These are the same assumptions as we have for the bag of words model because according to this bagal
for birds the modal documents are just a bunch of words thrown together.
So these assumptions we have been talking about are true for tax classification because a bag of words
model has the exact same assumptions and basically that's why name based classifier is working exceptionally
fine for tax classification.
In the next lecture we are going to see a step by step illustration.
How naive basic classifier works.
Thanks for watching.